---
layout: default
title: Editor Service 4.0.0
releaseDate: 2018-04-03
---
<div class="jumbotron">
    <h1>Editor Service 4.0.0</h1>    
    <h2>Compatibility</h2>
    <ul>
        <li>Lambda - Image Metadata <code>>= 2.1</code><code>< 3.0</code></li>
        <li>Lambda - Image Publish <code>>= 2.0</code><code>< 3.0</code></li>
        <li>Lambda - Image Resizing <code>>= 1.2</code><code>< 2.0</code></li>
        <li>Newspilot Writer Integration Service <code>>=1.2</code><code>< 2.0</code></li>
    </ul>
</div>

Released 2018-04-03


# Release overview 

## Etag from Open Content is used in optimistic locking

Starting with Open Content 2.0.0, Open Content supports optimistic locking using If-Match and ETag headers. This functionality is used by default by Editor Service, starting from this release.
To re-enable the Editor Service version of the optimistic locking mechanism, the `USE_OC_ETAG_VALIDATION` should be set to `false`.
This should be done for Open Content versions < 2.0.0.

## Response code for ETag conflict has changed

Previous versions of Editor Service reported `409 Conflict` as status code when the ETag and If-Match headers did not match. This has changed to `412 Precondition failed`. Clients that previously expected 409 for ETag mismatch needs to be updated to look for 412.

### Optimized document storage functionality

There has been a number of fixes regarding performance when updating documents in Open Content.  

# Changes in this release  


### New Feature 

 * [EDSE-105](https://jira.infomaker.se/browse/EDSE-105) - Handle case where document are opened using the generated ETag without reporting 412 Precondition failed 
 * [EDSE-104](https://jira.infomaker.se/browse/EDSE-104) - Set If-Match header in communication with OC when storing document 


### Improvement 



### Bug 

 * [EDSE-106](https://jira.infomaker.se/browse/EDSE-106) - Incorrect handling of get response from OC 
 * [EDSE-103](https://jira.infomaker.se/browse/EDSE-103) - Remove metadata file download from Open Content and improve error handling, when getting document 
 * [EDSE-102](https://jira.infomaker.se/browse/EDSE-102) - Editor service does not use ETag reported from Open Content 




# Upgrade notes  
      
### EDSE-104 Set If-Match header in communication with OC when storing document 
## Breaking API change

The status code for reporting ETag validation mismatch has been changed from 409 (Conflict) to 412 (Precondition failed). The writer needs to be updated to handle this case.


### Upgrade procedure
1. Let the users save their work and close all writer instances.
2. Upgrade Editor Service and Writer.
3. Tell the users to re-open articles.

If they do not follow the procedure above, the error message for ETag conflict (someone else has changed the document on server) will be a generic error message and not the 'conflict' dialog.              
### EDSE-102 Editor service does not use ETag reported from Open Content 
Open Content supports ETag from version 2.0.0. When Editor Service is communicating with an older Open Content, the `USE_OC_ETAG_VALIDATION` should be set to `false`   

